So if you're a front ender,
so you're doing front end,
typically today, you have two targets.
You can be doing websites, and
that's probably the most common target
when you are here at Frontend Masters.
So you are a web developer, you are doing
front end in JavaScript, React, Angular,
or whatever framework you are using, or
Manilla Js, or you can do native clients.
Today we are going to be making native
clients, at least at the beginning.
When you go native,
in terms of I wanna make native clients,
you can use official SDKs,
such as Swift for iOS,
Kotlin for Android, or
you can use a cross-platform SDK.
So a cross-platform SDK is
typically a solution that is not
actually from the platform,
it's not by the Android team,
it's not by the iOS team, it's just
another team, typically open source.
It can let you compile or build an app for
several platforms from the same project.
And this is where we are today,
we are going to be building apps
using a cross-platform SDK.
And within this world here,
today we have several solutions.
These are the top three.
So in the top three options that we have,
we have React Native,
Microsoft Xamarin, and Flutter.
So React Native was the king
until probably 2020,
in terms of cross-platform SDK,
and now Flutter is actually
getting over React Native
in terms of usage, okay?
So Flutter is kind of the king these days
for modern cross-platform app development,
and that's the framework, the UI
platform that we are going to be using.
And with Flutter,
we can actually compile apps for Android,
for Apple platforms including Mac,
iOS, iPad OS, for
Windows, and something interesting
is that we can also compile PWAs.
So with Flutter,
it's not just native clients,
we will be able to create, to get
an output, to build a web app, website.
We are not going to write a lot of HTML.
We're not going to write JavaScript
at all for that web app.
We will write Dart and Flutter and
the output will be a web app, okay?
But have in mind that when
you're doing Flutter,
you are also making websites or
web apps, okay?
Do you have any question at
this point on where Flutter
fits in the app development world?
>> What are the Windows
apps that it produces?
Is it executables or is it?
>> That's a good question.
So the question has to do with Windows and
what kind of app it's actually creating.
So it has several targets,
or several outputs.
It can create Win32 apps,
compatible from Windows 7, okay, to today.
And it can also create universal
Windows applications that actually will
go to the Microsoft Store.
So it supports both targets for Windows.
So classic Win32 apps and
modern Windows development for
the store for Windows 10 and Windows 11.
I have a question in the chat.
>> Yeah,
they're just saying it supports Linux.
>> Yeah, it support Linux as well as many
other platforms, I'm just picking the top
three here, but yeah, you're right,
it's supported on Linux.
Also there are other platforms that
are in beta, or sometimes in alpha.
For example, you can compile to Folk J OS.
What's that?
That's an OS from Google.
That is the one that is being
used in the Nest display devices,
such as the formerly Google Home devices,
that they have a screen.
You can also target those platforms,
Linux, and many others, okay?
So I'm just picking here the top three
in terms of usage within Flutter, okay?
And many more are coming, actually.
Because it's open source,
anyone can actually make its own compiler.
So you can compile Flutter apps for
other platforms as well.
Okay, so today we're going to
be building Coffee Masters.
Coffee Masters is going to be an app
that is suitable for a coffee shop.
So let's say that we
own now a coffee shop.
So we want users to order from the app.
So we will have a menu, and from the menu,
we will be able to add coffee and
snacks to a cart, okay?
So we're going to use that
to consume web services.
And also to see how data
management works in Flutter.
Okay, so that's our project.
We are going to code the app from scratch.
The only thing that you have already coded
is just some snippet to play with Dart and
some images, but that's all,
everything will be coded from scratch.
We're going to focus on Material Design.
So we haven't seen this yet, but there are
many decisions that we need to make when
we are doing Flutter applications.
One of the decision is which
UI toolkit we want to use.
Material, it's actually an open and
with a free license,
let's say, architectural system for
design, created by Google.
It's called Material Design,
probably you have heard about it.
And Material Design is
a set of best practices and
design patterns to design apps.
And Flutter supports Material Design and
it's compatible with the web,
with Android, or with iOS.
But have in mind that Flutter also
supports other UI toolkits, for example,
there is one within the name Cupertino.
So if I say Cupertino in terms
of mobile app development,
we are talking about Apple.
Cupertino is the city where Apple resides,
where the Apple Park is, okay?
So the Cupertino set of widgets in
Flutter are actually an iOS design.
But if you do that, it's not going to
be visually compatible with Android or
the web, okay?
So we are going to focus on materials that
works everywhere including iOS, okay?
Remember to download the assets and
the help from that URL.